docs(OTel): Add backend event catalogue (#7286)
Flagsmith/flagsmith: docs/docs/deployment-self-hosting/observability/metrics.mdx

---
title: Metrics
sidebar_label: Metrics
sidebar_position: 30
---

import MetricsCatalogue from './_metrics-catalogue.md';

## Prometheus

To enable the Prometheus `/metrics` endpoint, set the `PROMETHEUS_ENABLED` environment variable to `true`.

When enabled, Flagsmith serves the `/metrics` endpoint on port 9100.

The metrics provided by Flagsmith are described below.

<MetricsCatalogue />

## StatsD

> Flagsmith's Gunicorn worker emits per-request access log metrics (request counts, durations, HTTP statuses) to StatsD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Flagsmith WSGI worker emits per-request access log metrics (request counts, durations, HTTP statuses) to StatsD
```
